1. Before doing any other investigation, list two or three questions that this infographic
and explanation of methodology raise in your mind.

One question that this infographic and explanation of methodology raise in my mind is What ages did they use for their research? Are they not looking at ages or just looking at a state as the general population?
Another question that popped up in my mind was how did they decided on which food they chose to look if there was any correlations to breakups?


2. Where can you find Google Trends search data? Provide the URL.

https://trends.google.com/home?geo=US

3. The article concluded that “milkshakes take the crown as the ultimate breakup food,
topping the list in six states.” Pull up Google Trends data on Milkshake (beverage) and
change the date range to February 1, 2024 through February 28, 2025.


a) What is the highest peak recorded in the line chart for “Interest over time”?

The highest peak recorded in the line chart for "Interest over time" is from Feb 28- Mar 31,2025 with 100

b) What is the lowest dip recorded?

The lowest dip recorded in the line chart is from the months Nov 30 - Dec 31,2024 with 65

4. At the top next to the box for “Milkshake,” there is a plus sign to add another search
term. Click the plus sign to add a search for Hamburger (Food).


a) What is the highest peak recorded for searches using Hamburger? What is the
lowest dip?

The highest peak for Hamburger was the months Apr 30 - May 31, 2024 with 100, and the lowest dip for Hamburgers was from Nov 30 - Dec 31, 2024 with 72


b) What happened to the line for Milkshake? What do the high and low look like now?

The line for Milkshake looks more even with subtle ups and downs but at the end of the line the peak is more noticeable from before.
The high for hamburger changed from 100 down to 35, and the low for hamburger changed from 65 down to 23.


5. Why did the line for Milkshake change? Hint: Click on the icon next to “Interest
over time” for more information about how trend results are displayed.

I think the line for Milkshake changed drastically because more people searched for hamburgers.
So people did not search for milkshakes as much as they did for hamburgers, as I think hamburgers are a more popular food item.


6. Add a third term to your search, this time for Breakup (Topic).


a) Do you see any patterns that suggest a relationship between searches for Breakup
and Hamburger?

I do not see any patterns that suggest a relationship between searches for breakup and hamburger.

b) How about between Breakup and Milkshake?

While the lines of breakup and milkshake are a lot closer than breakup and hamburger were, I don't really see any sufficient evidence to suggest that there is a pattern that indicates a relationship between the two.
Milkshake throughout the year stays relatively close between the peaks and dips, while breakup in the beginning of the year has various dips and peaks more often than milkshake, while milkshake stays somewhat the same until the end of the year where it peaks a lot.


7. What does all of this suggest about the reliability of the conclusions reached in the
article?

I think that considering everything I found that the reliability of the conclusions reached in the article can't be trusted as some of the evidence and tool they used to find their results aren't as detailed as they should be. There is a lot of questions on the validity of the findings and that when I had the searches for breakups and milkshake I didn't see any patterns or correlations that would indicate they have a relationship.


8. At the upper right of Google Trends, click on the link for “Back to Classic Explore.”
Notice that this view includes a section for “Compared breakdown by subregion.”


a) What was the top state by interest for Milkshake?

The top state by interest for Milkshake was Alabama.

b) What was the top state by interest for Hamburger?

The top state by interest for Hamburger was South Dakota.

9. Use the download icon to download a csv file with these search trend results. Save it
to your DataAnalytics/week-01 folder as GTrends_milkshake_hamburger_2024.csv

DONE

10. OPTIONAL: Spend a little more time exploring Google Trends results for other
“breakup foods” listed in the article. Some more food for thought:


a) What are the differences you notice between searching for between searching for a
term as a “search term” versus as a categorical term? What thoughts does this
raise in your mind about working with Google Trends data?
∗ For example, compare “Milkshake (beverage)” to “Milkshake (search term)”,

There is a drastic difference between the categorical term and the search term. The beverage version of milkshake has way more interest than the search term version and it's a pretty big difference too. For the beverage the dip is 62 and for the search term the dip is 19. I think this further validates my opinion about using google trends as an accurate source or using it as a tool to find specfic data. I think this is just a tool to see the general of searche interest data and not specific data. For example I think you can use google trends to find if there is any patterns between two items and from there use another data to see if the patterna and relationship you are looking for is actually true.


then compare “Hamburger (Food)” to “Burger (search term)”
a) Try comparing “Hamburger (Food)” to some search terms oriented toward pop
culture or current events. For instance, you might compare to “football” or
“olympics.” What do you notice? What do you think other patterns in search
behavior might represent?


I compared hamburger to american football and the nfl and I didn't see any patterns that suggest there could be a realationship to each other. I think for the nfl and american football they peaked at the start of the nfl season and started going down after.
