1. What conclusion can you reach about the responses to this question?

A conclusion I can reach about the responses to this question is that everyone's routine to getting ready is relatively the same, people might do a couple little things differently but it is the same general idea. Another is that for having the second monitor it is split somewhat evenly a little more on the having one side than not having a second monitor. Lastly that the majority of the responses do their notes on pen and paper.

2. Is the default summary or visualization helpful? How could it be improved?

The default summary or visualization is helpful the results are shown as a pie chart or just a summary of how many responses depending on the question and it automatically chooses depending on the type of question. A way that I can see that it could be improved is all the results are in this tiny rectangular box, and only allows you to see one question at a time as you scroll in the box. It would be better if it wasn't in this box and instead all layed out throughout the page and you can see multiple questions at the same time.

3. For questions with an “Other” option, where can you find the actual text of those 
responses? Do you notice anything that might be tricky about analyzing these?

To see the "Other" option responses you can click on the more details button on the top right of the question box or you can click on "Check individual results" in the Insights and actions section.

One thing that I notice that might be tricky about analyzing these is that to see the other responses you will have to open a new window or page to see the responses and that will be a hassle and time consuming if there are a lot of "other" responses.

4. For questions calling for a written response, what challenges do you notice about 
finding trends or patterns in the answers provided?

A challenge I notice about finding trends or patterns in the answers provided is that some people word things differently so there might be some trouble to determine if multiple people's responses are saying the same thing or if they are trying to say something else differently.

5. Now that you can see the responses, how might you recommend rephrasing this or 
question or the response options in a future survey?

For question 4 I saw that there were a lot of people that answered with both computer and pen and paper. So I would just add that as an option along with the "other" option.

Next respond to the below questions:
6. Is there anything that surprised you about the survey responses?

There really wasn't anything that surprised me about the responses, they all kind of fell in line in the responses that I had in my head.

7. Looking at the responses to questions 1 and 5, are there any ideas you might try to 
include in your morning routine, or any questions that you are also curious about?

For questions 1 to 5 the responses were similar to what I had responded with.

Year Up United Data Analyst Training Academy Week 1 Lab Workbook
Page 14 of 55

8. Pretend you are the instructor. Is there anything you can learn from this survey to help 
in how you approach teaching this class?

If I was the instructor I would really look at the question 5 responses and answer those questions in class with everyone, as the questions that were asked relate to everyone and can also help ease the mind of the students.

9. Again, pretend you are the instructor. Do you think it was helpful or not helpful to 
make this survey anonymous? Why or why not? (If you can see both pros and cons, 
you may include both.)

I think it was good to make the survey anonymous as some of the questions were personal about what technology you have and I think it is helpful to just look at the data and not really focus on who responded with what.