1. Start by reviewing the data.gov home page. What is this?

data.gov is a website that is the home of the U.S. Government's open data 

2. Go to Most Viewed Datasets. How many datasets are listed?

There are 402,379 datasets found

3. Find the Topic Category for Human Health. Review the range of data sources 
available for this topic. Why do you think these were tagged with the Human Health 
category?

I think these were tagged human health because they have to do with what we eat, how our weather and environment, and our communities. All of these have to do with our health, for food what we eat and what is dangerous that could be in our food is important because it will affect our health. For environment, it affects our health because if our environment is good or dying we need to be aware of our environment to live.

4. Go to the Food Price Outlook. Review the catalog page for this dataset. How can you 
navigate to additional datasets from the USDA?

A way I found that you can navigate to additional datasets from USDA is by clicking on the image of the USDA in the top left of the box.

5. Go back to the data.gov home page. This time, click on Datasets by Organization.


6. Try searching for your city, county, and state. What organizations are returned?

I was only able to find organizations for my state which are the Open Topography and State of California. I searched for Modesto and Stanislaus in the search bar and nothing came up.

7. Search for USDA, and click into the result. Within the USDA datasets, search for food 
composition. Notice that the top three results are all datasets concerning nutrition 
information. Try searching the USDA page for nutrition. How does that affect your 
results?

When I searched for nutrition my top three results are a resource catalog and the next two are about nutrition programs. I also got more datasets than food compostion, for nutrition is 229 and food composition was 17.

a) One of the tricky things about working with data is that sometimes the terminology 
used by a data source is not obvious. You may need to dig around and be creative 
to find what you’re looking for.


8. Go back to the results for food composition, and click on FoodData Central. Review 
the catalog page for this data source, then click on the button for Visit Page. Take 
some time to explore the FoodData Central website. 

a) Try searching for butter, or any of your favorite foods. What kind of results do you 
get? What happens when you click on a result?

The kind of results I got was categorized in different tabs with varying amount of results and clickable links. When I click on a result a table pops up with data on it and another tab that is labeled as Update Log


b) Go back to the home page. Find Foundation Foods, and click on Downloads. What 
kind of data can you find on this page? How big are these files? Where can you find
more information on the data types available?

The type of data that I can find on this page is all of the documentation for each category by the latest months and earlier months as well. The files range but they are usually between k-g.
 
9. When you are finished, make sure your changes to Ex3B_ExploringPublicData.txt are 
saved. 
10. Using Git Bash, commit and push your changes to the DataAnalytics repository.